# book_cover_detection_orb
ORB(Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF) based algorith for detecting books cover.

Initially, my goal was to create an application for detecting simple objects. In my case, it's books. The program is based on two databases. One of them are photos that the program learns when the application starts. Then we pass the file name along with the extension to the application. The given image is searched in the database and if there are enough key points that have been matched, the user receives the key points along with the name of the searched object.
The operation of the entire program is based on the OpenCV library, which has the ORB function in its resources. The program reads all files from the patterns folder. It calculates key points and descriptors for them. Calculation of descriptors and keypoints are two separate functions, so there is easy access to all the necessary data about the file. The user is then asked to enter the name of the file they want to test. Key points and descriptors are calculated for the selected file. Then the program uses the knnMatch function, which determines the matches of the selected file with all the images in the pattern pool. The next step is to check how many of the selected matches are good. A simple for loop is used for this, which checks the distance between matches and if the distance is less than the point assumed by the programmer, it is considered good. The largest number of matches, preceded by checking whether the set tresh hold (default 20 good matches) has been exceeded, means that the object was detected correctly. Another topic to discuss is how many actually correct matches mean that an object is similar. A reasonable approach would be to apply some margin of error to the expected value, as borderline cases, for example 19 matches, can be misinterpreted. Of course, this does not guarantee 100% accuracy, but it significantly eliminates errors in borderline cases. For my implementation, I assumed +/- 3 valid matches. Insufficient matcha results in a message that the object could not be detected.